---
module: messages
itsaclassname:
version: 0.0.1
modulesize: 1.69
dependencies: "polyfill"
maintainer: Marco Asbreuk
title: Messages system
intro: "This module is the basic module for creating messages. It is used to <b>generate</b> messages, <u>not to process them</u>. Other modules -like 'dialog' can process the messages and display them on the screen."
firstpar: get-started-onlywindow
---



#The Basics#

`messages` are `promises` that can be generated by this module. They are promises with specific message-properties and once generated, this module will emit one of these events:

* *:message
* *:warn
* *:error
* *:statusmessage


Other modules can subscribe to these events and handle the message. The idea is that the message can be handled as long as its promise is not resolved. Also, processing the message means when finished processing, the promise should be made resolved.



#Generate messages#

This module comes with several methods:


##Available messages##

The next methods all return a promise:

###message###
Generates a general message. Can be used directly, or used by other methods (like `alert`)

###alert###
Generates a simple message.

###warn###
Generates an alert.

###prompt###
Generates an prompt with an input-element.


##General Methods##

###catchErrors###
Method to be used to catch system-errors and redirect them through the message-system.


####Example alert####
```js
ITSA.alert('I am an alert');
```

*Note:* the `dialog`-module takes care of handling this message



#Handling messages#

Messages need to be handled by separate modules. The `dialog`-module for example, is set up to handle all '*.message', '*:warn' and '*:error' messages by default. If you create you own message-handler, you could create a `before-listener` to handle some of these messages and use e.halt() to prevent them from reaching `dialog`.