---
module: icons
itsaclassname:
version: 0.0.1
modulesize: 1.99
modulesizecombined: 15.32
dependencies: "polyfill/polyfill-base.js, js-ext/lib/function.js, js-ext/lib/object.js, utils, event"
maintainer: Marco Asbreuk
title: SVG Icons
intro: "This module generates <b>icons</b> by html-markup that is converted into svg-icons. These icons are great, small in size, some animated and can be styled through css."
firstpar: get-started-onlywindow
extracodefirstpar:
---

#The Basics#

Icons can be setup with an `i-element` that has its icon specified with its `icon`-attribute:

```html
<i icon="question"></i>
```

To make this work, the `question.js` icon-module must be included. Several icon-modules are already build inside the ITSA-core.



#Styling icons#

Because these icons are svg-icons, they don't apply the font css. You need to style the svg-part. This means you must know (inspect) how the icon is build, in order to style the right part. Also, there is a different approach needed to define the *size* vs all other style properties.

Suppose using the `question`-icon, you can style it like this:

####Example changing size question icon####
```css
<style type="text/css">
    body i[icon="question"] svg {
        width: 5em;
        height: 5em;
    }
</style>
```

And style other properties like this:
####Example changing color question icon####
```css
<style type="text/css">
    body #itsa-question-icon {
        fill: #F00;
    }
</style>
```

As you can see, the second example refers to *#itsa-`question`-icon*. Each icon gets a system-node defined names as: *#itsa-`iconName`-icon*, where the svg gets defined. This definition is done by the icon-module.

The styles are set with `body` in front, so you always will overrule any default css that comes with the specified icon.



#Icons inside buttons#

To make icons fit well inside buttons, you need to set an appropriate classname to the button. These are the classnames: `itsa-icon`, `itsa=iconleft` and `itsa-iconright`.

```html
<button class="pure-button itsa-icon"><i icon="error"></i></button>
<button class="pure-button itsa-iconleft"><i icon="error"></i> There was an error</button>
<button class="pure-button itsa-iconright">There was an error <i icon="error"></i></button>
```

<button class="pure-button itsa-icon"><i icon="error"></i></button>

<button class="pure-button itsa-iconleft"><i icon="error"></i> There was an error</button>

<button class="pure-button itsa-iconright">There was an error <i icon="error"></i></button>



#Develop new icons#

Once the `icons`-module is included, `window.document` gets a new method: *document.defineIcon(iconName, viewBoxWidth, viewBoxHeight, svgContent)*. Using this method, any new icon can be defined. The best way is to develop a separate module for every icon. Icons can be choosed from at sites like [icomoon.io](https://icomoon.io/app/#/select) --> when the svg is generated, you get the `viewBoxWidth`, `viewBoxHeight` and the `svgContent` which is the inner-content of the svg. Every icon must have a unique iconname, or it will overrule previous definitions.



#Available icons#

<i icon="alert"></i> alert
<i icon="error"></i> error
<i icon="exclamation"></i> exclamation
<i icon="info"></i> info
<i icon="minus"></i> minus
<i icon="plus"></i> plus
<i icon="question"></i> question
<i icon="printer"></i> printer
<i icon="cart"></i> cart
<i icon="audio-anim"></i> audio-anim
<i icon="grid-anim"></i> grid-anim
<i icon="radar-anim"></i> radar-anim
<i icon="speaking-anim"></i> speaking-anim
<i icon="spinnercircle-anim"></i> spinner-circle-anim



#Technical information#

Icons are generated by transforming the innercontent of the i-elements. This is done during initialization (or serverside), where the i-elements get an appropriate system-childnode. DOM-watchers (mutation-observer) will take care to update whenever dom-updates need an icon.


<script src="../../dist/itsabuild-min.js"></script>
<script>
    var ITSA = require('itsa');
</script>
